* Games Prototypes
** Social Roguelike
[[file:research/socialRoguelike][Social Roguelike Notes]]


Binding of Isaac / Dungeon of the endless
influence,


** Gormenghast Sim

Maze of rooms generator with rituals and tradition
to match. Cif overlay of individuals with power
plays

** Kraken Wakes

Narrative focused apocalypse sim by John Wyndham.

** Veil of ignorance / Red Mars spaceship society generator

Galactica / Red Mars / Foundation inspired
repeated crisis point and shift to generate a
society.

** Sol System

Possibly merge with the above, but Horus Heresy
style ship to ship combat and planet invasion
House on haunted hill style reversal of
allegiances.

** Thud
   
As close a translation as i can manage of the
discworld game.

** Walking Sim

Something peaceful

** Titan

Dynamic LOD based game of scales, titans walking
around with villages on top. Zelda like story
would work well here.


** Obselete

*** People/Ant Farm

Similar to the sims, but where you have no control
apart from given them general AI behaviours.

*** AI Hotel
   
Playing as the AI hotel from Altered Carbon

*** City Gen
   
General attempt to make a city generator that can
do blocks and english organic growth styles.
Possibly incorporate churches in to.

*** Fencing

Transistor inspired turned based fluidic movement
of foils, sabres, and epee's. Possibly used as the
combat for the social roguelike.

*** Unnamed Horror

Ghost's Hinzerhaus inspired soldier management.

*** American Psycho Sim

The social power plays of Patrick Bateman. Meeting
cards, lunches at restaurants, dynamic
conversation, With a bit of going postal thrown in
to.

*** Boarding School Power Plays

Similar to above, possibly related to unnamed
horror.

*** Commander Keen Copy

Like the class, and RORC

*** Risk of Rain Copy (RORC)

Narrative-lite, focus on generation of levels and
shooting and wotnot

*** DOW 2 / Last Stand Copy

Arena based semi rts/rpg class based play.

































** General Ideas to Sort


the court politics of discworld's night watch, of
the west wing and house of cards, combined with
the societal change due to decisions that result
in a red mars like society builder. If CiF and
Praxis represent a computationalised model of
charismatic power, then it could be combined with
simplistic rule systems for the legal-rational and
moral sides of power.

Conflict would arise from individuals assessments
of how best to use resources, what rules to
enforce etc, and changes would be brought about by
making use of the three forms of power to get
votes. Thus: computational republic.

There are two sides to this plan. One the one hand
is the individual interactions that realise power,
and on the other is the manifestations of that
power into societal structures.  Games like Prom
Week, Wolf Among us, and Mass Effect are closer
aligned with the former. You don't really need to
strategise about keeping people under your thumb,
or the capabilities of an individual you are going
to blackmail.

Linked with this is the emphasis on *time*. in
that time needs to progress, slowly but steadily,
as you manipulate. This is different from there
being a timer on things. The closest I can think
of that gets to this is dead rising, or majora's
mask. The repeated pattern of days lets you plan
things out, but in those games only physically.

If you can daily schedules, then you can plan
other actions, such as social actions. Set in
motion slow mentions of things, train individuals
to respond to particular cues. (in this way i'm
getting towards hannibal style gameplay).

So: Interpersonal Power interactions situated in
cyclical time. Charismatic, legal-rational,
economic, and moralistic among others, as the
basis for manipulating the institutional
structures to get what you want. Imperfect and
changing information is a must, as is the need for
misunderstandings of authority.

FTL crossed with under the dome, difficulties that
make you rely on people you can't trust, forming
alliances for as long as you need.

